CIRC&SPH.BCC\CIRCLES\A-CIRC1.LST  (Draw circle by angle theta)
==============================================================
This uses the "angle method" to draw a circle or ellipse at the specified
origin with specified radiuses.  The angle (theta) loops from 0 to 2*PI,
through the four arcs, incrementing at the specified rate (step): as step
decrements so more points are plotted; as step increments so less points are
plotted.

A disadvantage of this method over the "axis method" (C-CIRC2.LST) is speed,
this method is slower than the "axis method".  However an advantage of this
method ("angle method") is spirals can easily be drawn (B-SPIRAL.LST).


CIRC&SPH.BCC\CIRCLES\B-SPIRAL.LST  (Draw spiral by angle theta)
===============================================================
(See also A-CIRC1.LST)
This uses the "angle method" to draw a spiral or 'spiral ellipse' at the
specified origin with specified radiuses.  The angle (theta) loops from 0 to
2*PI at the specified rate (step).  At each point the radiuses are incremented
by the specified amounts to create the spiral effect.


CIRC&SPH.BCC\CIRCLES\C-CIRC2.LST  (Draw circle by Y axis)
=========================================================
This uses the "axis method" to draw a circle or ellipse at the specified
origin with specified radiuses.  Each horizontal line is dealt with at a time,
starting at the top of the circle (-ve Y radius) and moving down to the bottom
(+ve Y radius).  At each horizontal line the angle is determined using inverse
sine, followed by the X component--which is assumed to be the same in both -ve
& +ve directions.

A disadvantage of this method over the "angle method" (A-CIRC1.LST) is it`s
screen resolution dependant, i.e. the holes it leaves!  However an advantage
of this method ("axis method") is filled circles can easily and speedily be
drawn (D-FILL.LST).


CIRC&SPH.BCC\CIRCLES\D-FILL.LST  (Fill circle by Y axis)
========================================================
(See C-CIRC2.LST)


---END---
