Rob Northen Copylock Backup/Restore Util - Coded by Absu of CYNIX
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This little util was originally written (almost a year ago) because there were
a few Rob Northen copylock protected games that we could not crack (easily!)
without a fully working copy. The 'code-modifying' type of internal is the
classic example as without a working copy of the game you would have to strip
off all the encryption from the front to work out exactly what it was doing
inside. It is much quicker (and easier!) to just dump the game code using your
cartridge on a working and non-working version (after the protection has been
checked) and then compare the differences between the two files!!

If you always get originals to hack then you will have no problem, but if you
sometimes get a non-working copy or if you have to download an MSA file of the
protected game then this util will be very useful.

You've probably already tried swapping disks (to another keydisk) just before
the protection is checked (we did!), but of course not all copylock disks have
the same magic key number..... so what you really needed was a method of
modifying the magic number on a working keydisk..... well, here it is!!!
This util will copy a non-working copylock protected disk onto another
(working) keydisk and modify the magic number accordingly.... so you will then
have a fully working version of the game to hack!
You will need a working copylock keydisk (just use an old original or hardware
copy track 00, side 0 of a working keydisk), but you can modify it as often as
you have to so one or two working keydisks should be all you will ever need.

The disk buffer starts at $20000 so load the program from an auto folder
(don't try to load from hard-disk). One meg of ram is required so that the
whole disk can be copied in a single pass.

I've decided to release this util now as a Christmas present to all those ST
guys who will find it useful, and I hope that it will mean even faster cracks
from such groups as Replicants (are you guys still going?), Elite (Very quiet
lately but I'm sure you are all still active), ICS (Spread this to all your
hackers and suppliers!), Superior (Hi Axe, hope you guys can use it too),
Pompey Pirates and Unity. It seems like there aren't many hackers left on the
ST now so maybe this will be useful to someone....

If you have any problems using this util then you can contact me by leaving
mail on The Outer Planes (602-345-7672 : Cynix World HQ).


Absu (1st December '92)

