WARRIORS OF LIGHT MONSTER GUIDE
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

This is a rundown of the various creat-
ures that will inhabit Haephaestia's
Island within the game. 

    BEASTS

These are creations of Haephaestia and
/or post-Cataclysm beasts that appeared
at that time.

BALOTH

Found in the deepest forests of Earth
after the Cataclysm, the baloth has
bone spurs, teeth, and claws that are
all sharp enough to rend flesh. Despite
this, however, they are omnivorous and
able to eat and digest almost anything
They are fast and deadly and constantly
hungry.

KERAUNOSAUR

A quadrupedal armoured lizard, this was
created when Haephaestia magically inf-
used the fossil of a prehistoric Earth
ankylosaurus with lightning magic. It 
is covered in bony plates and spines,
but in place of its club tail it has
lightning-infused spikes that send the
current down its body before it arcs 
from its frontal horns. Its armoured
body makes it immune to edged weapons
and even blunt weapons do only minor 
damage. Its only real weakness is that
it is incredibly slow and incredibly
stupid.

MANTICORE

The body of a lion and the wings of a
griffin, and a tail of venomous quills.
These solitary hunters inhabit many a
region and are known for their silence
despite their size. They will surprise
you and easily shred your flesh and 
devour you.

PETROX

This pachyderm lives underground and
roams around on its six legs. It can
spit sheets of flame from its mouth,
and many of its bodily fluids are also
combustible and noxious.

RHAPTODON

A small two-legged feathered dinosaur,
with a short vulture-like beak. The
rhaptodon usually travels in packs and
prefers to scavenge on carrion but if
disturbed will often make those who
disturb it into fresh carrion. Haepha-
estia is reported to keep a pack of
these in her deeper dungeons to disp-
ose of pests such as adventurers and
other vermin.

YALE

A post-Cataclysm creature, the yale is
a form of antelope but with long and
serrated horns and tusks and a coat
of thick, shaggy fur. Yales are known
to be herbivorous but their headbutt
is deadly and they are extremely terri-
torial and fast runners.


     INSECTOIDS


Anything chitinous and clicky.

CAVE MOTH

Large flying insects that live under-
ground and often are used by Mantids
as a mount. They are attracted to fire
and light but are extremely vulnerable
to the former.

EARWIG, GIANT

These horrors are small and weak when
compared to other insectoids but their
jaws can slash dangerously and often
they come in packs.

MANTID SLAVE-SOLDIER

In the aftermath of the Cataclysm, the
Mantids lived peacefully on the Moon.
Then they were enslaved by the Gorgons
of Mars and are now to be found as all
too willing mercenaries in their army.
Mantids often patrol in groups and can
be found wielding longswords.

MILLIPEDE, GIANT

Often used by Mantids as beasts of bur-
den, or to dig new tunnels with their
powerful munching jaws, they can also
prove dangerous foes. Edged weapons can
only do half damage due to their chitin
and for reasons nobody can properly ex-
plain, they are also resistant to magic.


    OPHIDIANS


These are the races associated with the
Gorgons of Mars and found near them.

GORGON, LESSER

Snake-tailed, deviously intelligent, and
able to turn others to stone with a mere
glance. They often wield a spear and a 
shield as well. They are to be found as
Haephestia's servants and handmaidens.
Oddly enough, one Gorgon cannot turn to
stone another, which is considered proof
that Gorgons are a superior lifeform.

NAGA

A large man-sized snake that combines
the venomousness and the hood of the co-
bra with the size and resilience of the
anaconda. They are best avoided.

HAEPHAESTIA, GORGON SORCERESS OF MARS

She was exiled from Mars for being too
evil. She is now on Earth and believes 
that Gorgons are superior lifeforms and
all other life must be enslaved. She is
capable of petrifying but also casting
a very large number of spells indeed.
Despite having no legs she is fast and
deadly. She has a throne room at the
very top of her palace.

