Dear Octalyser user,

This is version 0.96 of The Octalyser STE and it will probably be the
final version of this Tracker. It now contains everything we originally
planned, except a fully functional sample-editor.

The reason for stopping the development at this point is NOT that we
consider the Atari-computermarket to be dead or anything like that, we
have had very good response from Octalyser users and registrations are
still dropping in at a quite high rate. It's simply a matter of time.
Christian is putting a lot of work into his studies and I have been
involved in a few commercial projects (Pinball Obsession and some other
stuff) which are taking all of my time. I'm also going to start my own
Software House within 3 months and I'm aming for a career as a developer
of games and Falcon-utilities. So expect to see more Atari-stuff from me
in the future...

A lot of people have been asking for a Falcon-specific Octalyser.
There is no Falcon-specific version under development and if we are going
to make a Falcon tracker we will probably begin from scratch, but nothing
is decided yet. 

Even if we formally have stopped developing the Octalyser it doesn't mean
that the support is dead, so if you find any bugs or know some small useful
option to include, you can still contact us. If demand is high enough and
it isn't to much work for us, we will fix a slightly enhanced version
including these bugfixes/changes. Registered users will be notified if a
new version comes out and be instructed how to order it.

As you can se on the disk, two UCDM-Players are put in a separate 
folder. These are written by Lance, a great hacker and good friend of 
mine, they are not really a part of the Octalyser package, but I was
allowed to include them with the Octalyser.

Descriptions of the files are found in the individual folders of this disk.
  
Best wishes

Tord Jansson
THE OCTALYSER TEAM

See the manual for contact address
